# Classification of North American Mushroom Edibility

The dataset that was examined is the Mushroom Data Set from the UCI machine learning repository. This dataset was derived from the Audubon Society North American mushrooms field guide form 1981. In this guide, 8124 mushroom instances are described in terms of 22 physical characteristics and classified as either edible or poisonous. 4208 (51.8\%) of the instances are classified as edible and 3196 (48.2\%) are poisonous. If the status of the mushroom was of unknown edibility or not recommended for consumption, it was added to the poisonous category within the dataset. In nature, only about 3\% of all mushroom species are edible, so this dataset is not necessarily representative of native mushroom populations, but rather an aggregate of multiple instances of the same types of mushrooms being classified. This analysis aims to determine an accurate machine learning model to evaluate mushroom features to determine a fungus's edibility. This problem has applications of in-field classification for scientific or foraging purposes as well as evaluation of worldwide mushroom species. Additionally, no single mushroom attribute fully determines the edibility of the fungus; the combination of the features is what predicates classification. The large number of features involved in mushroom classification makes it interesting for machine learning applications because it is time-consuming for humans to perform the task. The classification of mushrooms based on their characteristics could contribute to understanding the edibility of some 11,000 species of mushrooms native to North America and prevent people from consuming toxic fungi. Determining a machine learning model to best predict the edible/poisonous nature of the mushrooms presented was the main objective. The models attempted were SVM classification, KNN, Naive Bayes, Decision Tree, Linear Regression, and fully-connected Neural Network architectures. 
